Let's learn HTML and start our web development career.

HTML Introduction

Table of Content
 -📌 What is HTML?
 -🌏 History of HTML
 -🥰 Features of HTML

📌 What is HTML?

HTML is an acronym which stands for Hyper Text Markup Language which is used for creating web pages and web applications. Let's see what is meant by Hypertext Markup Language, and Web page.

Hyper Text: HyperText simply means "Text within Text." A text has a link within it, is a hypertext. Whenever you click on a link which brings you to a new webpage, you have clicked on a hypertext. HyperText is a way to link two or more web pages (HTML documents) with each other.

Markup language: A markup language is a computer language that is used to apply layout and formatting conventions to a text document. Markup language makes text more interactive and dynamic. It can turn text into images, tables, links, etc.

Web Page: A web page is a document which is commonly written in HTML and translated by a web browser. A web page can be identified by entering an URL. A Web page can be of the static or dynamic type. With the help of HTML only, we can create static web pages.

🌏 History of HTML

Since the time HTML was invented there are lots of HTML versions in market, the brief introduction about the HTML version is given below:

HTML 1.0: The first version of HTML was 1.0, which was the barebones version of HTML language, and it was released in 1991.

HTML 2.0: This was the next version which was released in 1995, and it was standard language version for website design. HTML 2.0 was able to support extra features such as form-based file upload, form elements such as text box, option button, etc.

HTML 3.0: HTML 3.2 version was published by W3C in early 1997. This version was capable of creating tables and providing support for extra options for form elements. It can also support a web page with complex mathematical equations. It became an official standard for any browser till January 1997. Today it is practically supported by most of the browsers.

HTML 4.0: HTML 4.01 version was released on December 1999, and it is a very stable version of HTML language. This version is the current official standard, and it provides added support for stylesheets (CSS) and scripting ability for various multimedia elements.

HTML 5.0: HTML5 is the newest version of HyperText Markup language. The first draft of this version was announced in January 2008. There are two major organizations one is W3C (World Wide Web Consortium), and another one is WHATWG(Web Hypertext Application Technology Working Group) which are involved in the development of HTML 5 version, and still, it is under development.

🥰 Features of HTML

It is a very easy and simple language. It can be easily understood and modified.

It is very easy to make an effective presentation with HTML because it has a lot of formatting tags.

It is a markup language, so it provides a flexible way to design web pages along with the text.

It facilitates programmers to add a link on the web pages (by html anchor tag), so it enhances the interest of browsing of the user.

It is platform-independent because it can be displayed on any platform like Windows, Linux, and Macintosh, etc.

It facilitates the programmer to add Graphics, Videos, and Sound to the web pages which makes it more attractive and interactive.